For anyone to become a servant of Jehovah, they must have God's word deeply implanted
in their hearts.
Now why is it so necessary for us to understand that?
And what skills will help us to reach the heart of our students?
Jesus gave an indication in His illustration of the Sore.
It's found in Matthew chapter 13, and we'll read verse 19.
It says, where anyone hears the word of the kingdom, but does not get the sense of it,
the wicked one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart.
So the word of the kingdom is likened to seeds and the soil to the figurative heart.
Now the figurative heart represents what a person is inside.
It involves his feelings, his affections, his desires, his motives, also what he thinks
about and how those thoughts affect decisions in his life.
If you look back at verse 19, Jesus said that the seed in this case didn't grow because
the individual didn't get the sense of the good news.
Now Jesus has given all of us this assignment to make disciples of people of all nations
and baptizing them.
So our teaching needs to help our students get the sense of the good news, and that's
going to move them to action.
Proverbs chapter 3 and verse 1 highlights an importance of this type of teaching to us.
It's Proverbs 3 and verse 1.
Jesus says, my son, do not forget my teaching and may your heart observe my commandments.
So obedience to God must come from the heart as it indicates.
So brothers and sisters, it's our responsibility to learn how to reach the heart of our students
so that their thinking, their feelings, their reasonings will move them to be obedient
to Jehovah God.
As you watch the following dramatization, notice how Nita strives to reach the heart of
her Bible student.
Think any more about what we talked about on Monday?
I did.
But why would Jehovah make a rule like that?
No sex unless you're married.
It's totally okay, it might seem odd, but what quality do you most appreciate about Jehovah?
His love, me too.
So if he truly loves us, look at what he tells us at Isaiah 48 verse 17.
I Jehovah am your God, your God, Jade.
The one teaching you to benefit yourself, the one guiding you in the way you should walk.
I don't get it, it just doesn't make sense.
Does a little child always understand why mum and dad warns them not to do certain things?
Probably not.
So why all the rules and warnings?
Well, they love them, don't they?
And so if Jehovah loves you, it often takes time to appreciate why Jehovah asked certain things of us.
But if we really love him, we'll have faith that what he asks is for the best.
The real question is, do you trust him?
I won't do.
I really do.
This was a good example of how a Bible study conductor reaches the heart of a student.
Anita was calmly helping Jade to link what she was learning in her study to her relationship with Jehovah God.
It was not an intellectual exercise, so to speak, helping her to gain more knowledge about a certain subject.
Now it's really helping the student to connect the dots, so to speak.
See how the material applies to decisions that they're making in their life.
Throughout the Bible study, we want to constantly direct attention to Jehovah God.
And if we're talking too much as the teacher, it's going to be hard to accomplish that.
Your effective use of questions can help them connect their Bible knowledge that they're receiving to the qualities of Jehovah God that's going to make them love him.
This is such as his love, his goodness, and his righteousness.
Here's an example of a question that might be used.
Why do you think Jehovah would forbid a certain action?
See, that kind of question is helping your student begin to understand the thinking of Jehovah God on matters.
Did you notice it was not a yes or no question?
The question actually started with why.
And now that forces the student to go to another level of their thought process to explain the reason Jehovah forbids certain actions.
And that's a very good method of reaching the heart of a student.
Here's an example of another question.
How does this show you that Jehovah is a loving father?
There again, not a yes or no question.
It's this time started with how.
And that now requires the student to identify the evidence that proves that Jehovah is a loving father.
Did you notice in the video that neatest questions were touching Jade's heart?
She was skilled at her choice of questions, but also in the tone of voice when she was asking those questions.
She was not hurried or impatient to get an answer.
She quietly waited for Jade to meditate on the question.
Her method of teaching demonstrated a Bible principle that would be helpful for us to review.
And it's found in Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 5.
And Proverbs 20 and verse 5.
It says, the thoughts of a man's heart are like deep waters, but the discerning man draws them out.
And so the thoughts of a student are not always easily discernible.
Yes, it really takes a skilled teacher to draw those out like deep waters the verse indicates.
Through tactful questions then, you can help your student to examine how they feel about what they are learning.
Some simple questions will help you do that.
For instance, how do you feel about or what convinces you that or how would you react if?
See, those are excellent questions to help to draw up the inner feelings of your student.
Now there's a caution in this process because generally it's going to take time to gain the trust of the student,
so they'll be comfortable expressing their feelings.
As the students love for Jehovah increases, they'll be motivated to make changes in their lives to please Jehovah God.
First John 5 verse 3 says, this is what the love of God means that we observe His commandments.
So obedience to His commandments then is linked to love for Him.
And then addition, love for fellow humans, love for the Bible teachings that they're learning is going to help them to make any needed adjustments to their thinking.
Rather than shame your student, help them to reason on the benefits of correcting wrong viewpoints.
Do you recall how Nida handled the situation with Jade?
When Jade said Jehovah's Law against having sex before marriage was totally archaic.
Well, instead of scolding her, Nida skillfully used an example of a child not understanding the rules and regulations of the parent.
And you could see as she was discussing that Jade started to make the connection that Jehovah's Law is really an expression of His love for her just as a parent loves their child.
Once the student develops this relationship with Jehovah God and desires to make Jehovah's heart happy,
that's going to be the strongest motive for the individual to make whatever changes are necessary in their life to please Jehovah.
While it is a privilege to be involved in the work of making disciples, Jehovah wants us to also enjoy this work.
That was certainly the case with the Apostle Paul.
Open your Bible to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, 19 and 20.
And let's see how he felt about God's message changing the lives of those that he preached to.
It's 1 Thessalonians 2, 19 and 20.
For what is our hope or joy or crown of exultation before our Lord Jesus at His presence?
Is it not in fact you? You certainly are our glory and joy.
Few joys in life can compare with helping someone come to an accurate knowledge of the truth and watch them to progress to dedication and baptism.
We are so thankful to receive Jehovah's Holy Spirit and His guidance in helping us in this disciple making work.
But we too must do our part indiligently improving in our skills.
As this six-part symposium has highlighted, as we do our part improving our teaching skills and all aspects of our ministry,
we will find greater joy as God's fellow workers.